Let's talk about proposals, right?
Cuz I really wanna give you as
much as I can about how I do it.
Whether that's always gonna be suited to
you and your situation, I don't know.
First thing to say is in many cases, the
proposal for me is gonna be a formality.
The client has already decided they
want to work with me before they even
contacted me.
And, I've discussed budget,
I've discussed scope.
It's all been agreed and
that the proposal really is a matter of
me writing that all down so
that it's in a written format.
However that said, I do make an effort
with my proposals simply because I know
other people might read them, right?
So I'm actually gonna show you what
I include in my proposals cuz one of
the weird things is that everybody seems
to be really secretive about this stuff.
And it's like that's his secret
sauce that winds and work.
And it's like you never get to see other
people's proposals so what the heck,
let's do it.
So this is the,
I use a tool called qwiil, qwiil.com.
I think I might have
a link in here somewhere.
And I like it because
you've got templates.
And you can just fill in the template,
and it does it a lot faster.
So yeah, basically the first section in my
proposals is called engagement evaluation.
And I just start by explaining
the need that they have for my help,
why they want me.
I avoid talking about the company because
they already know who they are, so
many people start their proposals, so
and so is a SME in the retail sector.
Well, they know that,
why are you telling them that.
But to repeat back to them why
they need to hire you, well,
that's a whole another ball game.
The second section I have is objectives,
where I outline a small number of
objectives that the project
should deliver.
For example, one objective might be
to increase the number of leads.
So that really focuses people
on the benefits that working
with me will provide, because those are
the objectives they're trying to reach.
Then we've got measures of success.
By the way, these blue bits in between
their testimonials from various clients.
They're always good to put in, especially
if they're big names, it always helps.
Anyway, measures of success.
So for each of my objectives,
we need a way of knowing whether those
objectives have been achieved or not.
So I write down some how we're gonna
measure success, and that reassures
the client and sets you up for more work
when you can actually demonstrate success.
When you go back at the end of
the project, and go look, we agreed with
these, I've delivered all of these, then
they're more likely to hire you again.
So I include that in there.
Next section is the value.
Now a lot of people skip over this,
the value to the company.
For each of my objectives,
I attempt to tie it to a tangible,
ideally monetary return, right?
Doing this makes your price
look a lot more reasonable.
Now we go into a conversation
about pricing over lunch, and
the subject value brace pricing came up.
This idea of your fee is related to
the benefit that it provides.
It's a really tricky one to do.
And in most cases, for
the type of work I do at least,
I haven't been able to make it work.
But what I have taken away
from value-based pricing is
this idea of showing the value
that you are going to be
providing ideally in monetary terms,
so I do that.
Then we get into the methodology.
Now, so
this is more what I'm gonna do, but
I always create options for people, right?
I always try and offer a client multiple
options, so normally it's three.
And basically there's one that is going
to come in just under their budget,
right, so
whatever we agreed the budget should be.
Then we're gonna do a second one that's
slightly higher than their budget,
with a few extra bells and
whistles that are appropriate.
And then the third one,
I totally ignored their budget and
just spec it up as if I was doing it
as good as I possibly could, right?
Amazing, it's amazing how many times they
end up picking the deluxe version, right?
If you always stick within their
budget that the client has said,
you're throwing away good work, basically.
And you're not always giving
the client the best solution
either because you're having to stick
within the budget they've given you.
Then after that,
I get into basically how great I am.
So I have a section that outlines
the benefits you in particular provide.
So define both why you're a right fit,
but also why you're not.
Now that may seem a strange thing to do.
So just to give you a snippet of
how I do that, I say at the end,
ultimately whether you hire me comes
down to your ambitions for digital.
If you consider digital key to
your long-term business success,
I'm probably the right choice.
However, if it is seen as an important but
secondary component,
there may be better and
cheaper suppliers, right?
So I'm positioning myself in a very
particular place in the market.
And I begin that section by saying I'm
not the cheapest option there, right?
So don't be afraid to exclude
yourself sometimes because actually
saying what you're not reinforces
what your others aren't.
Sounds like that's kicked off something
in the chatroom, doesn't surprise me,
often creates a reaction.
Yeah, what you got Mark?
>> Does the deluxe version cost a lot less
or bit less than the value to the company?
>> The deluxe version,
the value to the company,
I don't even try and
tie it to the value of the company, right?
As I'd say over lunch,
I think am getting myself in such
trouble with the people that
promote value-based pricing.
And I've got a good friend,
Jonathan Stock,
who really pushes value based pricing.
And to his credit,
has made it work really well for himself.
So I don't know what
he's doing that I'm not.
But I haven't managed to get
value-based pricing to feel
like I'm not just ripping people off.
And I understand in principle of tying the
value you provide to the value that you,
sorry, the value that you
charge to the value you create.
I do I understand that in principle.
But, you can't make the guarantees that
you will provide the value that you
say you'll provide.
I think it's very hard in
most situations to do that.
So I don't tend to work in that way.
So my deluxe version really is just priced
at whatever I think the right way of
doing this project is.
And I just basically,
no budget is a constraint.
Now it may work out.
I mean, obviously, I don't ever allow that
figure to go over the potential value
that I think I can bring in, otherwise
it's not the right solution, is it?
If it's gonna lose the company money,
then it can't possibly be
the right solution for them.
So it will come under that figure,
but it may not come under it by a lot,
at least in the first year.
It may even make a slight
loss in the first year, but
then over subsequent
years it'll make it up.
So yeah, I don't tie it that closely or
pay that much attention.
But that's just me, I mean,
there are other ways of doing this stuff.
Okay, then I get into logistics,
how long is it gonna take?
Who's gonna do it?
What's the role of both myself and
the client?
All of that kind of stuff.
And then actually, because I use this
app called Quiller, allows me to create
an interactive pricing table that lets
people pick whatever option they want,
lets them change certain criteria.
So for example,
I often do usability testing, and
they can change the number of people I
do testing with to adjust the price.
They get it all right as they want it,
they click the Accept button, and
then they can actually sign there and
then within the app.
I don't always do it that way.
Because for example, when I'm working
with very large organizations,
they all have their own T's and C's.
They have their own procurement policies
and all the rest of that, and so
my T's and C's almost always
get rejected in that situation.
But where I can,
I do it all within the app.
So that's my proposals and
kinda gives you a sense of those.
Now there's one thing that, I don't
know whether you've spotted it, but
there's something that's been
missing from my process here.
Something that is very normal and
normally appears but
hasn't, and that's pitching.
I don't pitch, okay?
And I think if you can build the process
that I've talked about here, and
if you can get through all of the,
if you can build up that audience,
if you can nurture that audience, if you
can handle them right as they come in,
then you're not gonna have to pitch for
work, right?
Because the client will already
know they want to work with you.
And occasionally,
there was a period of time when I would
do the occasional pitch because
the company had said so,
we've got to procurement and yeah,
I'm sorry we have to do a pitch.
I mean, I'd only ever do them if they
basically turned around and said yeah,
we are gonna go with you but
we have to jump through the hoops.
These days I'm very fortunate, and
I'm actually at the point where I say,
look, if you're going out to tender,
I'm not taking part in this.
Even if you turn around to me and
say we want you,
cuz I think that's unfair to the other
people that have been played along, right?
So I don't play in that
game at all now but
I fully recognize that's only because
I'm now in a privileged position.
But what you will find is that the amount
of pitching you have to do considerably
drops off, because people
are coming to work with you,
you're not just another supplier.
So really that's all I
wanted to say on that.
I do wanna leave you with that checklist.
I'm doing a checklist at the end
of each of the sections.
So most of my checklist for
turning leads into projects.
Get yourself a CRM to track every lead
that comes in, you won't regret it.
It's a little bit money but
it's a business expense well-worth paying.
Pursue every lead to destruction,
don't give up people, keep going.
Arrange a call with any lead as soon
as possible, get them on the phone,
get them on Zoom.
It makes a huge difference to
building the relationship.
When talking to a client act like
an advisor not as a supplier.
They've been used to you being
advising them and giving them advice,
they want you to carry on doing that.
They don't want you to suddenly turn into,
I don't know,
one of the servants in Downton Abbey going
yes sir, no sir, whatever you want sir.
Be that advisor they've come to expect.
Ensure your proposals demonstrate value,
the value that you're going to bring.
And offered lots of different options, at
least when three is about right actually,
never offer a single option because
there's always opportunities to upsell.
So I've hit you with a lot of stuff in
this workshop, and there are a lot of
steps involved and it's gonna take
you time to process all of that.
But just as you go away from today,
I wanna try and
leave you with just the basic next steps,
right?
You can come back and go over this
material as many times as you need to.
I suggest you come back to it
as you're going through it.
So watch each section as
you're implementing it, but
just to give you the next
steps to get you going.
Step one,
decide on who you wanna work with,
that's all you got to do to begin with.
Step two, work on that survey so that you
can better understand those people and
what they need,
the problems that they're facing, etc.
And make contact with them by doing that.
Then you wanna build that landing page
with the associated email course and
you'll report to encourage more sign ups.
And then you wanna nurture
the relationships over time via email.
And get organized with how you
deal with those incoming leads.